that the Stellar development foundation
when the war in Ukraine started we
realized there was an opportunity for us
to make a difference
we had already been working with the
Ukrainian government on its digital
strategy and we realized that the vision
that we have for payment rails on
blockchain the vision that we've
implemented along with a lot of our
technology Partners could really help
people in need
so over the last 11 months we pushed
hard to make it a reality we pulled
together our incredibly technology our
incredible technology organizations that
you'll hear from today to create a
system that shows why the Stellar
blockchain and its ecosystem combine to
make something truly special
we navigated months of testing to make
sure that this was worthy of those that
we are trying to help and Carmen Hutt
who you'll hear from today planted the
seed that got the whole thing moving so
we are so grateful to her for her vision
and Innovation and her trust in Building
Together
and all of that brings us to today
the Stellar blockchain Aid disbursement
system is live fully implemented by The
unhcr Who is delivering digital cash
assistance to internally displaced
people idps in Ukraine before we dig
into the specifics I want to share some
important context
hash based interventions serve as a
Lifeline to the world's most vulnerable
populations this need is only growing
most notably with the start of the war
in Ukraine causing some 7.8 million
refugees to flee the country
and 6.5 million to become displaced
within the country
which pushed the number of forcibly
displaced people globally to a hundred
and three million for the first time the
highest number of forcibly displaced
people in history
this disbursement system that we're
announcing today is designed to help
these people by serving the aid
organizations that deliver Aid to them
directly
to tell us more I'd like to introduce
Carmen hat the unhcr treasurer who has
been a Visionary in spearheading the
development of this solution since the
start of this year with the SDF hi
Carmen
hello hello everyone yes indeed today is
a great day it's it's a it's a big
step and of many to take yet to come
the solution is live so so that's
good it's fully integrated and I'm also
here wearing the the financial the
financial head so I'm I'm a finance
professional so we need to ensure that
this solution really meets our high
criteria in traceability accountability
making sure that we can actually report
Dollar by Dollar so we are confident
today that the reporting tool is fully
in place and we can deliver in an
accountable way so
the solution is life and we have
basically implemented now in Kiev in
liebe and in Venezia and more to come
so far so good so it has absolutely
achieved what we what we wanted to
achieve
so we're on a we're on a good we're on a
good path here
as I've said many times internally to
our team and also I think to you Carmen
you have really pushed us to be better
and to make sure that what we delivered
was of the top quality so what role does
cash assistance play in the unhcr
support of idps and refugees
it obviously plays an incredible role
and it plays a crucial role because it
gives people really the choice because
we have to imagine any of us if we were
to if we were to be forcibly displaced
you know what we would actually need so
we really need to have you know
Financial inclusion as well so it
provides and strengthens livelihoods and
also economic growth it means that
people really have that choice of what
they need and when they need it so they
have access immediately to to the
financial ecosystem so that's that's
really key
and you already touched on a bit about
the the notion of the transparency and
and from and putting your financial hat
on but what are the benefits to the
unhcr of this system that that we've
built together
yeah the benefits are are vast and
multiple so
on on one side we have instant access it
provides instant access to the financial
ecosystems
with with obviously bulk
disbursements so many many
beneficiaries can be reached in in no
time in an extreme Rapid Way
there's transparency so we can we can
basically
follow follow the money follow the data
all the time anytime anywhere on any
device so we have full full visibility
on all transactional
interaction
as I said access is very important so
access to
to to to to money access to money but
access to markets as well
and basically for the most vulnerable to
make sure that they can really survive
because we're talking about survival
here
stability because it's the usdc here we
are using so that means that any time on
the wallet that the beneficiaries can
actually carry the US dollar
and it is not obviously it's not due to
devaluation at this point so they have a
choice as and when they withdraw
partially or fully
and it is portable so as people are on
the move they they have access to that
money all the time as and when they need
it
and there's the cash out so the cash out
options are very important because it
needs to be contextually relevant and
the access to money
for survival is crucial through these
Solutions so it's not a hypothetical
solution it's a solution that is
contextually relevant and is working
yeah I love to hear those words we've
worked together for so long to make this
happen
you've already touched a bit on the
the notion of the the transparency and
from a financial management and
Reporting is that something that's
really important not just to obviously
the unhcr as it's doing its own
reporting but to the unhcr donors
yes of course so we have we have high
scrutiny on each and every dollar that
that we get to to deploy
assistance and Aid in general
the key here is that we need to get
we need to get visibility that we can
do that reporting so whilst we have data
available on the Chain we need to make
sure that we have on time on time
real time
the the the information available so the
scrutiny is is is higher is higher than
actually in kind in kind assistance
in kind would be if we deliver if we
deliver a bag of rice so the key here is
that every dollar is basically monitored
real time
and reported upon
thank you so much for that all of these
these these things that you just
mentioned are so important and have so
much to do with just the value of
blockchain but also just the value of
these tools that we've built together
we wanted to share a message from Deputy
minister bornyakov of Ukraine the
ministry of digital transformation has
been supportive of the development of
the solution over the past few months so
we'll go ahead and play that now
greetings everybody
Ukraine has been fighting for the future
it's Democratic choice and its survival
as a nation
2022 is the hardest year for a country
for 11 months we have been fighting with
a brutal illegal Russian aggression
almost a year ukrainians have been
fighting not only for their country's
survival and sovereignty but also to
enhance European security and prove that
democracy is still the most vibrant form
of governance
today another biggest shelling of
Ukraine happened
dozens Iranian drones in the very heart
of Ukrainian Capital targeting critical
infrastructure when people were supposed
to be going to work
today 30 of power plants are destroyed
people have lost their access to the
essentials electricity and water supply
Russian energy terrorism is a new way of
blackmailing not only creating but the
whole world
Russian terrorism isn't related to
winning over strategic objects this was
made to scare this track and let's be
honest to kill ukrainians
back in 1991 Ukraine chose to be an
independent sovereign country
and in 2022 we're fighting for a choice
from the early days of fosuke invasion
we realized that we can mean only with
the help of Technologies new approaches
and Innovations
Ukraine is using Cutting Edge
Technologies such as blockchain
cryptocurrencies nfts and web 3 in face
of the Dreadful challenges of the
Russian war
and today we can see how embracing
blockchain technology allow us to scale
humanitarian efforts in a way that
wasn't possible before
the United Nation Refugee agency and the
Stellar development foundation launched
a first of its kind blockchain payment
solution for digital cash distribution
to internally displaced persons in
Ukraine for fleeing ukrainians and
primarily for those whose Banks accounts
are in acceptable this pilot project
providing humanitarian assistance using
a digital wallet based on blockchain
technology
and will serve as a possible Lifeline
for survival
the project itself is a vivid example of
how blockchain has the potential to
transform the way humanitarian funds are
allocated
the use of blockchain Technology allows
to ensure that the most vulnerable
people will have access to funds
provided in their name in this way
humanitarian efforts all over the world
will be strengthened in unprecedented
way
the ministry of digital transformation
of Ukraine is grateful to the United
Nations Refugee agency and the Stellar
development foundation for standing with
the people of Ukraine and doing this in
such an efficient and modern way thank
you
so Carmen after hearing from from Mr
bornyakoff and understanding you already
had a really good sense of the
challenges in Ukraine why did you
believe this could be a good solution to
Pilot there yeah
like like we just heard that obviously
Ukraine is a global lead in the
development of Technology solution they
have a wide a white
white companies obviously available
inside the countries as well so
from from that also the the people
themselves are very digitally literature
literate and also the regulatory
environment very important of course to
be able to access in a digital way the
financial ecosystem
and that allowed so the combination on
regulatory environment and as well the
technology allows basically to to reach
the people in need as I said before
what is most important to us is
obviously so you know to implement
solutions that work
and that are that are basically giving
that Lifeline to people in need so
Ukraine in this sense is is specific and
we would have to see how else we can
roll out this kind of solution further
in the world
thank you yes
that's that's great and I'd love to turn
to the technical components that bring
this solution to life key pieces being
circles usdc the vibrant non-custodial
wallet and MoneyGram International so
let me just provide a really quick
overview of how the funds the flow of
funds and how they get from the unhcr to
idps in Ukraine so the unhcr is
responsible for program eligibility
beneficiary enrollment and the
allocation of relief Aid as well as the
overall protection of the beneficiaries
the unicc serves as the Technical
Solutions provider for unhcr it manages
the back end technology with the full
internal implementation of the Stellar
disbursement platform and integration
into the un's cash and Reporting systems
making it the first independent instance
of Stellar Aid assist which is so
exciting to me the Stellar network is
the blockchain that transmits the funds
and holds the record of Truth with the
Stellar development foundation providing
Technical and programmatic support usdc
is a one-to-one backed digital dollar
issued by Circle and it provides a
trusted digital dollar stable corn
stable coin for a safe store of value
vibrant provides the digital
non-custodial wallet software that
enables program participants to receive
and store their relief Aid and MoneyGram
International provides hundreds of
thousands of locations around the world
where participants can cash out their
digital dollars into local currency some
MoneyGram locations support Cashing Out
physical USD and or Euro depending on
user preferences so MoneyGram is
integrated with several large banks in
Ukraine so it allows for seamless
digital cash outs to the beneficiaries
bank accounts from their phone if that's
the way they choose to do the cash out
so now I'd like to invite Dante desparte
from Circle and Anna Greenwald of
MoneyGram International to join this
discussion and talk about the specifics
of this innovation
Dante can you speak to the value of
having a digital dollar as a secure
store of value in the humanitarian Aid
use cases like this sure thank you
Danelle it's great to be with you and
with Carmen and Anna here today
this is one of these really powerful
examples that while it might still be in
the Prototype phase I think is the type
of innovation that should be in the
hands of everyone everywhere in no small
measure when you have disasters and
humanitarian crises like Ukraine and I
should point out these types of
Necessities aren't just for conflict
zones or emerging in developing
countries but very much here in the
United States in many places the
movement of money in a disaster scenario
is often strictly about Supply Chain
management and Logistics when you have
trusted forms of money in digital form
such as usdc and you have blockchain
networks like Stellar and you have the
Integrations with networks like
MoneyGram around the world you now have
a form of money that can be sent to
people with the instantaneity of the
internet have the underpinnings and the
fundamental Trust of the US dollar and
then have the auditability and the
corruption resistance of a completely
perfect transmission medium in the form
of blockchain networks
and and think about what we're
improving upon in many cases
humanitarian Aid disbursements are
physical pallets of cash delivered to a
physical air base or a an airport
somewhere in the world and those pallets
of cash are nothing short of Honey pots
for corruption bribery and fraud
the type of money we're moving in this
prototype in this project
is anything but a honey pot for
corruption bribery and fraud and so I
think what we've done here in Ukraine
and what we hope to do in other
emergencies around the world we should
not forget Afghanistan we should not
forget
a lot of Forgotten crises around the
world where this type of prototype can
be very meaningful
should be a part of this new digital
humanitarian blueprint so Circle usdc
we're all very very proud to be a part
of this announcement today
well yeah and I think one of the things
that I've always talked about is just
how important it is to be able to send
the value that you send is the same as
the value that you receive and so what
you guys have built and the opportunity
to be able to leverage a digital dollar
that is one-to-one back this is so
important I know you guys know this but
to be able to have that to be part of
the solution it just really makes it
work seamlessly
absolutely and and the point I was going
to make is is again this is not the
first time usdc has been integrated in
such a large-scale humanitarian project
a number of years ago
at the height of the crisis in
Venezuela usdc had a very similar
project to provide for corruption
resistant instant and audible auditable
peer-to-peer payments for doctors
across the country supporting the
pandemic and Disaster Response at that
time
the the key of course is it's not
enough to do this once there's so much
great humanitarian need around the world
and as Carmen said at the outset helping
people in acute scenarios like the war
in Ukraine is one piece of the puzzle
ensuring that you're advancing
you know material Financial inclusion
objectives along the way I think is
also very critical and so we're
concerned with not only providing people
with no buyers and Spenders Remorse by
having a trusted digital dollar but as
MoneyGram has provided now you have this
Global on and off ramp so that those
digital dollars are not potentially
stranded on your mobile device or your
phone but they now enjoy a global
exchange Point all over the world
through this partnership with MoneyGram
as well and that's a perfect segue into
a question for you Anna this solution is
as much about blockchain Innovation as
it is about how traditional services and
fintechs are coming together to make a
difference Alex and I always talk about
the fact that this is really that
blending of the old world and the new
world and it's one of the things that we
talk all the time about about how that
enhancement just really creates so much
opportunity can you speak to how these
off-ramps into local currency are
meaningful for idps
yeah thank you and first I I just want
yeah thank you and first I just want
to Echo what Dante said about how
thankful MoneyGram is to be part of this
conversation and part of the solution
with unhcr and Stellar
I think Dante used the word acute in
talking about meeting the needs of this
population and I think that's one of the
places where MoneyGram provides the most
value is that having these physical
networks and Integrations with banks and
the licensures needed to do cash
disbursement it's very time consuming
and so
I think one of the the challenges
faced with with refugees and with with
idps is overcoming that initial hurdle
of getting into the market and so I
think moneygram's ready-made
cash disbursement Network that we've
spent decades building out can quickly
now be turned into this incredible asset
in this partnership and so again we're
just so thankful to be here and to get
to utilize that Network alongside you
guys
we launched the the MoneyGram
relationship with the Stellar network in
June and to see it not just be live in
180 or so countries globally but to be
able to be used in this way is for me
just sort of the reason why I'm in this
space so I'm so grateful to the support
that we've had from MoneyGram
from and from the the team there
to be able to make this come together
Dante it's obviously been a really
tough time in our industry with many
Skeptics out there about the utility of
blockchain this announcement is the
direct counter to that right
it is in fact a year ago yesterday I sat
in the Senate Banking Committee
having to not only defend the
activities of circle but in some ways
the entire industry and yes it has been
not just what we refer to in this
industry a winter but perhaps an ice age
and at our darkest time I think this
example today is a good example of a
bright light
also I would argue a year ago Circle
announced a broad program known as
Circle impact in which we made a few big
commitments one of them was that we
would allocate a billion dollars or more
to minority depository institutions in
the U.S and Community Banks we've done
that the second is that we would launch
a digital financial literacy program
with historically marginalized
communities and and colleges we've done
that and the third and perhaps most
important pillar is that we wouldn't
just sit back idly while Humanity
Humanity suffered or there were dire
humanitarian crises and I'm again
pleased to say that when you know unhcr
and others had to make an exacting
choice about which digital currency
would be a part of this program that
usdc was there and so the key for me
though is these opportunities
shouldn't just be pilot projects
humanity and the the need for Disaster
Response requires that we pre-position
these capabilities well before a
conflict or a disaster strikes and so we
look forward to partnering with Stellar
MoneyGram the United Nations systems and
candidly Aid agencies all over the world
to ensuring that these otherwise open
Digital public goods are readily
available for people everywhere well
before a disaster strikes and so I think
that's our priority as we look into 2023
and so we could end this otherwise dark
year on a slightly bright note and not
not rest on our Laurels that this is
just a pilot project today this should
just become a part of a norm all over
the world
here here and and when we and Carmen
when we talk about
this experience and how we can use
this experience to prepare for future
crises
what is how do we build these
Solutions so that they pre-exist
before a crisis event strikes
yeah preparedness is is key so I think
that this is one step we have a solution
in place and we now need to see how
adaptable it is elsewhere and it is
there's no doubt but we need to keep in
mind that these Solutions required to be
useful with the people at the center we
serve so in each context we need to look
contextually what really
you know what are the key key
criteria to make this happen
and our ultimate our ultimate goal is to
be able to provide any time anywhere on
any device
the the benefits so so you know unhcr
has been in in that business for some
time so that's what we do
each time we have we have an emergency
but we always can get better so we need
to build upon upon this these seats I
think the seats are now in the ground so
we need to we need to make sure we can
we can leverage them sufficiently and
you know at the Baseline we need to
be able to to follow the money and
follow the data so so I think once we we
overcome that then we are we are ready
for for any disaster scenario
also a key a key ingredient is the
regulatory environment so we need to
make sure that each and every
jurisdiction
we understand what we can do because we
are not we are not essentially in the
business to to run a parallel system
we are here to you know to integrate to
to the financial ecosystem and that
people can go about their lives like any
of us would would wish every day
so this is this is how we see it to to
leverage fully the current solution
that is being put in place
I think that's really important and and
Anna I wonder if you could think about
this solution we tried really hard when
we were when we first met with Carmen
and others from the unhcr to make sure
that this wasn't a square peg round hole
and to make sure that we weren't just
like trying to force blockchain into a
situation that didn't make sense
certainly we've been working with you
guys since June and have you seen that
like this is different than what you
guys have offered you guys have worked
in humanitarian situations as well
before
and how do you feel about the way
that this works with respect to the
different offerings in terms of cash
versus bank account kind of thing I am
so glad you're asking this question
because it's something we think about a
lot at MoneyGram I think what's unique
about this use case is that it
demonstrates truly the best of what each
of us have to offer it demonstrates how
you can you can blend and create a
bridge and it moves us beyond the
conversation about displacement and for
me it was never about displacement it
was always about how do we take the best
of what each of us have to offer and
create True Value and so I think this is
just one of those things where one plus
one doesn't make two one plus one opens
the universe to something much much
bigger and again moves us beyond the
conversation about displacement and and
creates a model hopefully for other
other parties like ours to see that
there really is this powerful
relationship that delivers value and we
can move Beyond seeing one another as
competitors or displacing Technologies
yeah Alex likes to say that he's been
people have been trying to disrupt your
business for the last 50 years we're
actually trying to get your business and
to use all of the tools that you've
built to be able to bring good to
everyone
Dante you have spent the better part
of your career really focused on
these kinds of issues humanitarian Aid
and spending time really for the folks
that are in the most need when you look
at the tools that we're offering here
today
how do you see this as different from
what you've done before
yeah I mean for one this is no longer an
abstraction and I cannot say enough
about how grateful I am to Carmen and
the unhcr for having had the courage of
of trying to build something that is is
not a a science experiment but rather
that is in deployment so I spent a
number of years on FEMA that's the U.S
Emergency Management agency's National
advisory Council a number of years in
the insurance industry and I am myself a
disaster displaced person when Hurricane
Hugo destroyed Puerto Rico in the late
80s along with it went you know any
semblance of normality in my life and
so when speed matters most friction
stands in the way and moving money in
analog forms is stands in the way
remember here in the United States we
moved more than six trillion dollars of
taxpayer-funded money to everybody in
the country and so much of that money
was ultimately lost
enough to fund the totality of the UN
sustainable development goals I should
point out in no small measure because
the the pipes are Antiquated they're
leaky they're back here looking and
they're plagued with opacity the form of
money that we're talking about here and
the form of integration that we've
designed together with Stellar of course
with MoneyGram is a form of money that
is auditable portable and ideally
universally usable
if you and I were going to do this with
physical cash it wouldn't work and
ironically in the context of a pandemic
like covid-19 it would be as limited as
our arms can stretch and would have all
kinds of other limitations so this is
not meant to be a substitute Innovation
is just meant to provide additional
levels of financial support and
humanitarian support
and so I'm excited for what this
prototype means and how this can be
deployed including frankly domestically
here in the United States
I think it's really important by the way
I've been monitoring the comments to see
if there are questions we have just a
few more minutes if anybody wants to add
some in there
the one of the things I was going to
say is the Simplicity of which this
works where the the individual the
IDP receives a text message to download
the wallet and then they can they know
that they have the opportunity to
receive aid from the unhcr and it
immediately gets put in their wallet
using the technology there's actually a
a blog post that we have up on our
website that'll explain the the
technical back end of how this all
happens this is really what you say in
terms of getting to sort of the heart of
the issue and sort of changing the
dynamic
really and just created an
opportunity for the to put the power in
the hands of the IDP and I think in this
these situations they don't feel that
they have a lot of power but this allows
them to choose to cash out to hold their
value to cash out a part of their value
that that type of thing so it's really
exciting there is a question here and
and this probably goes to you what is
the kyc requirement on the recipients
and who is in charge it's both unhcr and
Anna Anna you can start yeah sure I'll
start so kyc we're talking about a
global solution and kyc requirements
differ around the globe but I'll speak
specifically to you crane
like we mentioned a couple times our
relationships in Ukraine are are
primarily with banks and so
both us and the bank we require the the
consumer to have identification that
proves that they're the person who
should be receiving the funds
and so along with that their name
their address their phone number
is what's required to be KY seeds in
person
and Carmen you are the the unhcr is the
entity that actually determines the
beneficiaries
that are receiving the the aid from
the unhcr exactly so unhcr is in charge
of registration enrollment eligibility
determining how much everyone will
ultimately receive
so unhcr is not performing the kyc so
it's it's it's the financial service
provider at the cash out that is
performing kyc
yeah
well we are at time
thank you all for joining this has
been such a great announcement and it
makes me feel like this year all that
we've worked for together collectively
is just so worth
this kind of thing coming together
before the end of the year so thank you
all for supporting the work and for
joining us in this journey and we want
to continue this is not just going to be
the only thing that we do together so so
thank you again thanks for joining today
and thanks for the work that we've done
together here
thank you